# KOVO-Prediction
Matching Prediction on Korean Professional Volleyball League

### Abstract
This study analyzes the Korean professional volleyball league and predict match outcomes using popular machine learning classification methods. Match data from the 2012/2013 to 2022/2023 seasons for both male and female leagues were collected, including match details. Two different data structures were applied to the models: separating matches results into two teams and performance differentials between the home and away teams. These two data structures were applied to construct a total of four predictive models, encompassing both male and female leagues. As specific variable values used in the models are unavailable before the end of matches, the results of the most recent 3 to 4 matches, up until just before today’s match, were preprocessed and utilized as variables. Bagging, Random Forest, Xgboost, Adaboost, and Light GBM, were employed for classification, and the model employing Random Forest showed the highest predictive performance. Upon analyzing the selected final model, the importance of variables and partial dependency plots were examined. The results indicated that while significant variables varied by gender and data structure, set success rate, blocking points scored, and the number of faults were consistently crucial. Notably, our win-loss prediction model’s distinctiveness lies in its ability to provide pre-match forecasts rather than post-event predictions. We anticipate that our analysis can offer strategic insights to Korean professional volleyball teams.

#### Keywords: volleyball, match prediction, machine learning, classification
